Starting over on Instagram is one of the
scariest, yet possibly one of the best
things that you could possibly do.
And so in today's episode, I'm going to
walk you through whether or not it's the
right decision for you, because some of
you would really benefit and might go
viral and blow up your business from
starting over. And some of you need to
stick with it. You should not start
over. More specifically, in today's
episode, I'm going to give you eight
different questions that you should ask
yourself before deciding whether or not
it's right for you to start over. But
first, let's start with why might you
even want to start a new account? Well,
you did click on this episode, so you
may have a little bit of a motivation to
want to start over already, but like I
said already, newer accounts can often
times grow faster for numerous reasons,
some of them more clear than others.
Basically, new accounts often times get
preferential treatment from the
algorithm and can get an additional
boost. Really, what's happening here is
that the algorithm is trying to figure
out where your account fits in and who
would be interested in your account
rather than having years of proof that
people just aren't interested in your
account. Some people might want a new
account just for a fresh start, a
rebrand, or maybe a new niche. Maybe
your account has been plagued with
restriction after restriction, a lot of
them for no reason. You left a comment
on your friend's post and Instagram took
it down, and so now it feels like you
just can't get any views. Some people
want a backup account for safety
measures. Maybe their main account is in
jeopardy of being taken down because of
the niche that they're in, and so having
a backup account is kind of like a
safety net. And often times older
accounts have a lot more fake followers,
a lot more spam followers, or they don't
have access to all the same features
that they should have. Like I on my
Instagram account, which I've had since
2012, I still don't have the repost
button. Yeah, the repost button which
came out like six or eight months ago
now, I still don't even have that on my
account. But on my same phone, I run
three or four other newer accounts that
do have access. So regardless of what
your possible motivation is, I'm about
to share with you eight different
questions that you can ask yourself. And
if you answer yes to five or more of
these questions, then I would recommend
starting a new account. Question number
one, is your account older than 3 years
old? Like I already said, newer accounts
oftentimes get preferential treatment.
They have less followers, which can mean
a higher engagement rate, and they
usually get access to all of the best
features. So, if your account was
started in 2021 or prior, you might want
to consider starting a new account. If
it was started in 2022 or later, then
no, it's way too soon. Question number
two is in regards to consistency. Have
you posted at least five times per week
to your feed, not stories, five times
per week to your feed, every single week
for at least the last 12 months? If you
answer no to that question, then it is
definitely not time to start over
because you have not been consistent
enough. It is true on Instagram that the
more you post, the more you grow. But
also, the more you post, the better you
get, the more you improve your skills,
and the better your quality of content
becomes. And so, if you haven't been
that level of consistent, five per week
for a year, well then, it's too early to
start over. You don't need a new
account, you need to get more
consistent. And I really want you to be
honest with yourself in these answers. I
don't want it to be like, "Well, yeah,
I've been pretty consistent. I posted
like three a week." or "Yeah, I post
five per week most weeks. And then I
missed a couple weeks here or there." I
want you to actually look at the
numbers. Like, take how many posts you
posted in 2025 and divide that by 52. If
your number is less than five, then you
did not post five times per week in
2025. If consistency is a struggle for
you, the two biggest things that I would
recommend are number one, take a week or
two off. I know that sounds crazy, but
like literally, take a week or two off
of posting and instead use that time to
create as much as possible. So, it's not
like 2 weeks of sipping a martini, it's
2 weeks of batching. It's 2 weeks of
making as many posts as possible. That
way, once those 2 weeks are over, you
have like 14 or 30 or 50 or maybe 150
posts that you have created, and then
you can schedule them for the future.
You can post once a day without having
to create every day, and you can instead
create two or three times a week. You
can create when you're feeling good,
looking good, when you have an idea,
when you're feeling creative, when you
actually have the time and the energy to
create, instead of forcing it every
single day. And then my second tip is to
use the strategy that I like to call
upcycling, which is essentially taking
posts that you have previously shared
and re-uploading them or recreating them
every 90 days or so. Now, I used to say
that you should only take your best
posts and upcycle them, but as we all
know, sometimes you make a great post
and it just doesn't perform well.
Sometimes you make a bad post and it
does perform well. So, whether or not it
performed great or bad, whether or not
it went viral or it flopped the first
time, I want you to take every single
post that you have previously posted,
and as long as it still makes sense,
right? Like as I'm not going to tell you
to post a Christmas meme in the middle
of April, but as long as it's still
timely and relevant, as long as it's
still coherent and makes sense and
appropriate, then post it a second and
even a third time, like a directory
upload. Save it to your device, download
it. Hopefully, you already have it saved
before posting it, and just post the
exact same video. You could use the same
audio and the same caption, and post it
again, and that should allow you to
increase your output without having to
necessarily change your input. Are you
ready to take your business's marketing
to the next level? Meet Brevo, the
all-in-one marketing and CRM platform
that's designed to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM, reach your
audience through email and SMS, and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to improve
your strategy in real time. It's like
having a marketing expert on your team
who works 24/7. And of course, Brevo
also offers advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AI-driven
personalization. Everything that you
need to create multi-channel campaigns
that hit the mark every single time. Get
started for free today or use code
tribe50 to save 50% off their starter
and standard plans for the first 3
months of the annual subscription. Just
head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. Question number three,
is my content above average compared to
everyone else in my niche? Now, this is
one that's a little bit harder to judge.
So, you might need like an independent
third party. You might need to like ask
a spouse or a loved one or your kid or
something to judge your content and tell
them to be really harsh and be really
honest with you. You could even use AI
and put your content into AI and ask AI
to be a Simon Cowell-style harsh judge
and critic of your post. But, are they
actually above average compared to
everyone else in your niche? Or, are you
just a mockingbird? Are you just posting
the exact same things in the exact same
style as everyone else? So, you're just
average compared to everyone in your
niche? Or, are you below average? The
quality of your content absolutely
matters. And if you're not creative, if
you're not coming up with new ideas, if
you're just regurgitating the same posts
as everyone else with little to no
authenticity, creativity, or
originality, you're not going to grow. I
also want you to pay attention to the
little details like the editing, the
pacing, the lighting, the camera
quality. The audio quality is a huge one
that so many people overlook. The
caption style, the video style, and
probably most importantly of all, the
hook. If these things aren't above
average compared to everyone else in
your niche, you're not going to see
results. Question number four, have I
used inorganic growth tactics? And when
I say inorganic growth tactics, I mean
one of the following things: buying
followers, buying engagement, buying a
shoutout, participating in paid
giveaways where it's like, "Hey, you
have to follow these 10 accounts to
enter into the giveaway." Joining follow
trainings, which are kind of like those
mass forwarded emails and texts from
2004, where it would be like, "Send this
to 10 people or you're going to get 3
years of bad luck. Forward this to seven
people or else your family are going to
be cursed." But now the 2026 equivalent
is like, "Follow me and the other seven
people on this list and then add your
name to the list and forward this to 10
new people." Another example of an
inorganic growth tactic is of course the
classic follow unfollow, which is where
you follow a bunch of people, you wait
for them to follow you back, and then
you unfollow them. That was popular in
2012, but in case you haven't looked
around, it's not 2012 anymore, so don't
do it. It's tacky and it's inorganic.
Another form of inorganic growth, which
I think is actually less common
nowadays, which is a good thing, is
called engagement groups or engagement
pods. And it's basically where a bunch
of people, usually a couple hundred or
at least, you know, 10 to 15 people, get
together in some sort of group chat on
WhatsApp or in the Instagram DMs, and
they all agree to engage with each
other's posts. So that way, every single
time you post, you have like a
guaranteed 10 likes. Yay! But
unfortunately, over time, the Instagram
algorithm recognizes that this is
inorganic. It's the same exact engagers
at the exact same time every single time
you post, and so that engagement is
weighted less heavily. It's basically
less valuable likes, and so your post
end up getting shown to less people, and
usually when people join an engagement
group, they end up worse than when they
started, and then they're kind of dug
into a hole.
>> when I started my first real online
business, I remember that my head was
filled with so many what ifs. What if no
one buys this? What if I'm an impostor?
What if there's no market? What if I
can't sell? What if what if what if?
What if this is all just a big waste of
time and I'm just banging my head
against the wall. But what I wish
someone told me back then is, just like
you can imagine all the negative what
ifs, there are just as many, if not
more, positive [snorts]
what ifs. What if this works out? What
if this is my breakthrough? What if this
is what sets me financially free? And
thanks to one of today's sponsors,
Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks, from
inventory to payments to analytics, all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier, and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f dot com forward slash
t r i b e. Question number five, do I
have multiple community guideline
violations? Whether it was your fault or
not, whether you actually posted a
picture of your butt or it was just your
knee and Instagram thought it was your
butt, regardless of the reason,
regardless of whether you were actually
in the right or wrong, have you had
strikes or violations or posts taken
down by Instagram? If it's just one or
two, you're probably fine. But if you
have three or more, then answer yes to
this question. And basically what's
going on here is that the more times you
basically go to jail, the more times you
get in trouble with Instagram, the
closer they keep a watch on you, and the
less likely they are to let you go for a
minor speeding infraction, the less
likely they are to let you go for
jaywalking. And so starting a new
account wipes it clean, it makes
Instagram forget. You're like a new
person with a new social security
number, and you've changed your
identity. Question number six, do you
have critically low engagement? And I'm
going to define, first of all, what I
mean by engagement, and then I'm going
to talk to you about some benchmarks
that you can compare your engagement
rate to. When I say engagement rate, I'm
specifically talking about the amount of
people who engaged, or you could say the
total number of engagements divided by
the total number of views that that post
received. So, simple numbers, let's say
you get five likes, two comments, and
one save. If you add all that up, that
is eight total engagements. If your post
got 100 views, then your engagement rate
would be eight divided by 100, or 8%.
So, while it might feel like five likes
and two comments isn't very good
engagement, 8% is actually well above
the average and is not critically low.
Here's what would be defined as
critically low. If you have less than 5K
followers, a critically low engagement
rate would be below 2%. If you have
between 5K followers and 20K followers,
a critically low engagement rate would
be below 0.85%.
If you have between 20K and 100K
followers, a critically low engagement
rate would be less than 0.6%.
And finally, if you have more than 100K
followers, a critically low engagement
rate would be below 0.5 or half a
percent. And you might have noticed that
as the number of followers got higher,
the engagement rate went down. That is
common. It's very common if you have 30
followers that half of them are your
family members, and so they're going to
like everything that you post. But when
you have 30,000 followers, there's a lot
more people who are disinterested, a lot
more people who are just kind of
lukewarm followers, a lot more people
who followed you on their second
account, but they forgot the login and
password. And so, the more followers you
have, usually, almost always, the lower
your engagement rate is. And I should
say that your engagement rate needs to
be that low for at at a few months. If
you have like one post with that low of
engagement, okay, you made one bad post.
If you have one week or even one month
with that low of engagement, okay, hey,
maybe we need to go back to the drawing
board and figure out what was going
wrong this month. But, if it's four or
five or six months with that critically
low engagement rate, then you would
answer yes and it might be time to
restart. For the last few years, I've
been using Notion to basically organize
my entire life. It's so much more than
just a to-do list app. It's truly a
one-stop shop for organizing any area of
your life or business. And it's not just
great at organization, it's also great
at automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now, for
the first time, they are introducing
Notion AI agents. The new Notion custom
agents will allow you to automatically
perform advanced tasks without you even
having to lift a finger. For example, I
built a Notion custom agent that
automatically pulls the link to any reel
that I've posted and then it pulls out
the text that I say or the text on the
screen in the first few seconds of the
reel. Basically, it pulls out my hook.
And then it's able to look at how that
post performed and compare it to the
hook, which allows me to see which hooks
are actually working so that I can reuse
them and tweak them for future reels.
Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools and more time creating great work.
Now, with Notion's custom agents, busy
work that used to take hours, or let's
be honest, didn't really get done at
all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between a
custom agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but custom agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But, don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest growing
companies in the world like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try Custom
Agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase notion n o t i o
n.com/byt
to try Custom Agents today. And when you
use my link, you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/byt.
Question number seven, have you had a
post that went viral and brought in a
bunch of followers from outside of your
niche? And I know this might be a
confusing one cuz you're like, "Brock,
it went viral. That's awesome." Going
viral is fun, but when it's outside of
your niche, what happens is you get a
bunch of followers who are non-ideal.
Let me tell you about when this happened
to me. In November of 2025, I posted a
reel that had a really strong hook. It
had a little gamification. There was
like hidden words and you had to comment
a keyword. And at first, it was just a
great performing post. And it was
reaching people in my target audience.
And I was getting a bunch of leads and
customers from that post. But then, in
January, it started to spike again.
Three months later, it suddenly was
picking up steam and was getting a lot
more views. And my following was like
spiking up and I was like I literally
said to my wife, Tay, I was like, "Why
is my following blowing up right now?
Like I usually have a good idea, okay,
this post is going viral or this thing
happened and so I'm getting followers."
But like I've gained like 5 to 10,000
followers in the last week and I don't
know why. And then I figured out, "Oh
hey, that post from November is going
viral." But unfortunately, from looking
at the DMs and looking at the followers
who were actually coming in from that
post, a lot of them were high schoolers,
Gen Alphas, under the age of 18, who are
not my ideal clientele, who have no
interest in starting a business or
growing their following on Instagram.
And so, I was suddenly getting a bunch
of non-ideal followers. And because of
that, my following posts for the next
two or three weeks didn't do as well
because Instagram wanted to show those
posts to my new followers. Those new
people had just decided to follow me.
That's a big indicating factor that
they're interested in my content, right?
But then when Instagram shows them a
post about hashtags or how to grow on
Instagram, these kids are like, "I'm a
sophomore in high school. I don't care."
And so they don't engage, so my post
gets less views. And so I had to archive
that post. I had to take it down.
Fortunately for me, I had a lot of
followers before that. I had 800
something thousand followers before
that, and so a couple thousand followers
is a small percentage, and it's not
going to make a big dent. But if you had
200 followers and you gained 5,000 who
were non-niche, that might be a big
problem down the line. Because either
those people are not going to be
engaged, or they're going to stay
engaged, but they're never going to
become customers. And so if you have had
multiple viral posts outside of your
niche, or if you have, let's call it,
more than 50% as an estimate of your
followers have come from these viral
non-niche posts, then your answer would
be yes to this question, and it might be
a good idea to start over. And then my
eighth and final question, have you had
a major rebrand or change in niche? Now,
if you go from like rock climbing coach
to fitness influencer, that's not really
a massive change. If you go from like
recipe creator to you own a bakery,
that's not a huge change. If you think
of these things as Venn diagrams,
they're quite overlapping, or at least
there's a lot of space overlapping
between the two different niches. If you
go from like business coach to
snowboarding expert, then that's a
completely different niche, and your
answer would be yes. The bigger the
shift, the bigger the change, the more
likely I am to recommend starting a new
account. Now again, if you answered yes
to five or more of these questions, then
I want you to seriously consider
starting a new account. And I know it's
scary. I would say it's one of the
scariest things you can do on Instagram,
but you're not starting from zero.
You're starting over, yes, but you're
starting over with all of the knowledge,
all of the experiences that you've
already gained. And if you're staying in
the same niche, then you can even take
the posts from your old account. I
wouldn't recommend taking all of them,
but maybe take the best posts from your
old account and post them onto to new
account. Speaking of, I did an episode
just a few weeks ago on how to start
over on Instagram in 2026. How I would
actually go about growing my following
from zero followers if I had to start
from scratch in 2026. [music] So, if you
did answer yes to five or more of these
questions, then go watch that episode
and I guarantee that you will grow in
2026 if you implement the strategies
that I shared in that video. Thank you
so much for listening today and as
always, happy networking.